The Historic Highlands Property Map (HHPM) website (https://historic-highlands.oakbluffsarchaeology.org/) was built using Leafletsjs, an opensource JavaScript library for creating web-based maps. In addition to the Leaflet source-code, the HHPM map utilizes several Leaflet plugins, third-party code written by users that extend the functionality of the Leaflet’s core features. Each plugin is designed to perform specific functions, improve user experience, and/or integrate a Leaflet map into other applications (Agafonkin 2025 ). The main plugin that the Historic Highlands map is built on and could not function without is the “time slider” which allows users to alter map features over time – here viewing the distribution and ownership of property from 1870 to 1960. By moving either end of the slider tool users can explore the Vineyard Highlands at various points in time; whether that corresponds the time that their families first owned property there, the time their families may have owned property in the past, or simply viewing how the community changed. This plugin was the primary reason I chose to work with Leafletjs rather than another mapping library or spatial visualization application. The secondary plugins used in this map project include those to create a collapsible sidebar menu, improve the zoom tool, and to add a search function a legend.

This repository does not contain the data files which populate features on the HHPM. It is intedned to serve as an example of the code used to create an interactive web map for sharing historic property records, the ways I have modified the Leaflet JavaScript library and the plugins I used. The data for the live veriosn of the HHPM comes from the Oak Bluffs Historic Highlands Archaeology Project Kora database (https://kora.oakbluffsarchaeology.org/) and can be accessed with permission.
